A UUID is a type of identifier often used to uniquely identify items, even when some of those items were created on a different server or by a different application. That is, without any synchronization, two or more computer systems can create new items and label them with a UUID with no significant risk of stepping on each other's toes. It accomplishes this feat through massive randomization. The number of possible UUID values is approximately 3.4 X 10E38, which is a huge number. The chance of a conflict is vanishingly small with such a large number of possible values.

Each UUID consists of 32 hexadecimal characters (the digits `0`-`9` and the letters `a`-`f`) represented as a string. The value is typically broken into 5 sections in an 8-4-4-4-12 pattern, e.g., `'f65c57f6-a6aa-17a8-faa1-a67f2dc9fa91'`.

Write a function that takes no parameters and returns a UUID.

# PEDAC

## Understanding the Problem

- Input:
  No input

- Output:
  UUID (32-hexadecimal characters)

- Rules / Requirements:
  Use the 8-4-4-4-12 pattern
  0-9 and a-f

  - between the patterns

- Mental Model:
  Split a-f into an array and 0-9 into an array
  Create a function to generate a string with a specific length as a parameter, and then call that function with the different lengths and interpolate the values into a string.

## Examples / Test Cases

```js
"f65c57f6-a6aa-17a8-faa1-a67f2dc9fa91";

```

## Data Structures

- Strings
- Numbers
- String interpolation
- Function with limiting parameter

## Algorithm

**Generate String Function**

This function will take a parameter and return a string of random numbers/digits that is the length of the parameter. Inside this function will be an array of 0-9 and a-f so that it can pick random integers between the two.

**Result**

The result will be in a string variable and we will use template literals and inside we will just call the function and use the return value inside of the strings.

## Code

```js
const generateUUID = () => {
  const data = ["a", "b", "c", "d", "e", "f", 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9];
  const pattern = [8, 4, 4, 4, 12];
  let uuid = "";
  pattern.forEach((el, idx) => {
    for (let i = 0; i < el; i += 1) {
      let randomNumber = Math.floor(Math.random() * data.length);
      uuid += data[randomNumber];
    }
    if (idx !== pattern.length - 1) uuid += "-";
  });

  return uuid;
};
generateUUID();
```
